people are selecting specific firearms
specific ammunition going out into the
forest looking just to kill this
gorgeous animal it's not just a simple
cops-and-robbers model it's not as easy
as you know good guys bad guys we need
to be able to put law and order into the
equation this is where i started in
quality duly in a park in southern
republic of congo this elephant is one
guy that we would see relatively
frequently and as you can see he's got
enormous tusks in over three years
nobody has seen this elephant it's a
national park it's got boundaries but
criminals don't care at all about where
you draw those lines on a map
criminals have much more complex
networks and their logistics go as far
as they need to
we're not talking about a guy hunting to
feed his family wildlife trafficking is
not subsistence hunting we're talking
about addressing the industrial scale
problem that we're dealing with leopard
skins a very tough one because we're
trying to catch the traffickers but at
the same time we know that the hunting
in the forest is often opportunistic so
hitting the traffickers and getting that
message back to the poacher so the
trigger isn't pulled in the first place
or the snare isn't leaving first place
is very hard that is not the case of
course when it comes to ivory where
people are selecting specific firearms
specific ammunition going out into the
forest looking just to kill this
gorgeous animal we're seeing some giant
seizures over in Asia from Central
Africa it's coming from Congo gab on
right smack in the middle where we have
the best elephant populations you get
hundreds of kilos of ivory going out all
the time
accumulating into thousands of kilos
inside of big port cities like in low
man togo please notice that the
ammunition was an ak-47 clip I don't
know if you want to call that a leftover
from conflict or just an excuse for a
big problem that we need to talk about
which is corruption you have people in
military or police forces providing
ammunition to poachers using their
authority as a cover so that they can go
and make a lot of money off this stuff
so who are these guys everybody is this
basic notion we have the poachers they
give it to a trafficker the
trafficker gives it to a middleman he
goes to bigger traffickers down the line
to your king pin and so from a law
enforcement perspective you think right
it's easy we're going to intercept these
guys with anti poaching on the poachers
some police forces along the way and
we'll work it out gets a little bit more
complicated when maybe someone in your
police force is part of your network and
I could add a lot of other bubbles and
make this far more complicated when you
look at who's providing the ammunition
who's getting them out of jail who is
making it so that even if they get that
strong prison sentence that they can
still slip away or get a fake medical
slip personally we have seen every
permutation of corruption that you can
imagine there's an operation which we
did with the National Central Bureau of
Interpol and concrete we're over thirty
thousand dollars overseas and over 800
pieces of ivory this fellow is and that
i really want to put in jail i have put
him in jail a couple times and he's
still doing that he's smiling there but
he's not smiling here when we're trying
to arrest him
this is a failure of ours we failed with
this guy he is too powerful
we have been trying everything to get
him arrested his name is e comma our
dogs have come in and scan the place
found hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
of pieces of ivory but this fellow got
out of jail because his son is an ex
rebel leader an ex-member of parliament
and he's using every bit of political
weight that he can get to traffic his
influence across the Congo to make sure
that his father doesn't go to jail even
though his father's one of the biggest
ivory dealers in Congo at the same time
he he has the audacity to go to the
police station a few weeks later and
figure out how to get his ivory back so
these are the types of problems but we
have to we have to figure out is babysit
these cases every single step of the way
to make sure that he doesn't get his
ivory back
here's a success a hundred and twenty
six kilos of ivory seized in Brazzaville
big trafficker he's got a connection to
camera into Nigeria it was probably
going to go on to go to Togo and all of
that stuff we get the dogs in the search
the place
the guy gets two years in jail the dogs
do lovely stuff on their own we took
them into forestry concessions you can't
hide anything from these dogs and that
enables us to prove that these camps
were not actually working for logging
concessions are just doing their job and
lit them on fire
obviously I like playing with the dogs
amazing to have live animals around in
our work
that's the US ambassador as well he's
shaking hands with Sean and that's
really important for us we need
political leverage we need that kind of
political weight and that's kind of the
take home message here is that with all
of this complicated reality of how
illegal wildlife trafficking networks
function we have to accept that it's not
just the simple cops-and-robbers model
it's not as easy as you know good guys
bad guys it's really complex we need a
lot of political pressure to make sure
that we're actually able to put these
guys behind bars and neutralize them for
as long as possible
we need to be able to put law and order
into the equation so spread the word
about that please and let's not make it
a simple thing
let's address this problem with the
reality that this
thank you very much